The best one I've ever had was Jensen,
Jensen Wong. When the stock was two, I
said, "We're done trading it. Uh, please
stop trading it." And then I renamed my
dog with, he was Everest, and I named
him Nvidia. And I go all over the
country and I see
>> how confused was the dog.
>> The dog was an idiot. I If you had
steak, you always had to have steak in
your hand with that idiot.
[Music]
Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLotss podcast. I'm Jill
Weisenthal
>> and I'm Tracy Aloway.
>> Tracy, something I think about the
market these days is that in the media
there's this incredible drum beat of
experts and ads that support the media
etc. All these experts that they say
don't try to beat the market. That's
right. Index, index, index. And actually
indexing is great because like it's
cheap and indexes have performed
incredible returns. And now though for
the last several years it's like the
public is becoming unshackled and doing
the exact opposite of everything. And we
see the most extreme form of you know
day trading and trading on Robin Hood
individual names zero day meme stocks
options. It's like the public has
revolted against this message that it's
been inundated with for years. Well, you
know what I think is really interesting
is not only is retail sort of going out
on its own, but Wall Street and the
institutional investors are kind of
copying what retail does, right? Because
retail was the first into something like
zero day or one day options and then it
became institutionalized and you saw
that big professional volume follow on.
So, it feels like retail is a really
important part of the market now and
rather than retail trying to do what the
experts do, it's kind of the experts
trying to Yeah. catch up with retail.
understand what retail is doing. Yeah. I
I totally feel like and again like I'm
not I I love an index fund and I don't
like having to
>> You're an EMH guy. I'm just going to
remind you.
>> I'm like an EMH guy. Yeah, I love it.
But like I do feel like there's this
huge tension and it only feels like it's
accelerating because now there's more
and more things to bet on and there's
crypto and pretty soon on your Robin
Hood app you're going to be able to like
bet on a prediction market on what the
Fed is going to do. So, we live in this
world of trading against what all the
nine like myself sometimes on TV say.
>> That's the four pros.
>> Yeah. Well, anyway, we really do have
the perfect guest, someone I've wanted
to speak to literally for years, someone
who has long been preaching in public
that the individual can pick stocks,
that picking stocks is a good thing,
that you don't have to accept the idea
of just being boring and being average
and getting the average return. I'm of
course speaking of uh we are going to be
speaking with Jim Kramer. He is the host
of Mad Money on some network called
CNBC.
>> Never heard of it.
>> Uh and he is the author of a new book,
How to Make Money in Any Market. So Jim,
thrilled to have you uh on the odd lot.
>> First of all, that intro what you're
talking about just is the fundament of
what I'm talking about. But I want to
spend a second talking about the person
to my left, Joe. Joy's my wife. No. No.
My wife look my wife was looking at the
book door. She look at the book and she
goes, "Okay, you got Today's Show and
you got Joe." And Joe is someone who's
going to get it going for you and wake
up and he's going to probably know the
book and he's going to know your stuff.
And Tracy, I tell you, when you do these
things are pretty soulless.
>> Uh, so when you get something like you
guys, I mean, I just laugh. And you
know, my dad sold corrugated. That was
his job. When I was a hedge fund
manager, I just went exclusively with
him. I mean a reference to last week's
show, but I do want to talk totally much
clearly about what you're talking about.
I wrote this book.
>> Well, I just want to say that the first
line of the book is congratul
congratulations. You've just bought the
most radical book about investing ever
written. Classic creamer mod.
I love that. But it's true that
everyone's been taught these days you
can't pick stocks and you just have to
be in index funds. Thank you Warren
Buffett for that too. although his stock
was the one you should have picked. And
what bothers me is people are going to
do it. And you talked about zero day and
things like that. They're going to do
it. If they're going to do it, why not
help them?
>> I mean, one of the premises of the book
is is that I know that people want to
speculate. So, look, I say own an index
fund for half your money. You got to be
saving constantly and then take five
slots. Five. Try to find four really
good stocks and a speculative one. You
want to go do nuclear power. you want to
go do bloom energy for f hydro, you
know, hydrogen fuel cells. I'm not going
to stop you. Provided that you try to
find the next fang, and I'm fortunate
enough to to created fang because it was
just something that seemed funny, but
you know, I do that, too. But what I'm
trying to do is accept the fact people
want to do this, do it right, and if
they do it right, maybe they do it long
term, own stocks, like I use the term
compounding. How do you compound if
you're a day trader,
>> right? You can't. You can't. So, I mean,
I look at this show and this show is
about trends and about long-term trends.
Like, I'm I find that most things that I
read about are about trading. And you
can't beat the machines trading, but you
can beat them if you compound long-term
in really good stocks. And I mentioned,
it's crazy, but I went over 100 years.
There was a study about over 100 years,
and if you held Vulcan materials rocks,
you made a fortune. Uh, I don't really
emphasize it, but if you held Philip
Morris, you made the most money of any
stock. Philip Morris. Oh, yeah. We have
a whole episode on that.
>> Denny Devitri broke that company up as
one of the greatest breakups ever. But I
don't like to talk about I lost my
father-in-law to, you know, cancer from
smoking. Wanted to cigarette on his
death, but you know, that kind of
nonsense. So, I I feel like that
long-term is good, provided do it right.
Uh, and I let people pick stocks because
they want to. And by the way, there have
been 600,000 millionaires created by
individual stocks in the last year, and
I want the people who read it to be the
next ones.
>> I think it's fair to say whatever you
think about um overall performance and
the efficient market hypothesis, just
putting your money in the S&P 500 is
kind of boring, right?
>> Well, that's it. You see, people, they
want some they're jonesing.
>> I have to keep them from jonesing on the
wrong thing because I don't even want
jonesing. I actually want investing. I
was a hedge fund manager right for many
many years and when I quit I said you
know what I have got to change this
because people keep thinking they can
come in standing start and buy micron
and you don't know anything about micron
to a standing start why not pick a great
stock that's down because and it's got a
good yield and you can own it for a long
time you see the big secular trend and
if I can do that and get people to stop
day trading that's the win they can't do
you guys think that they can win day
trading at home No,
>> no. It's day. Okay.
>> They can't.
>> But so your argument they can't win day
trading, but they can win win picking
stocks and holding them.
>> Yeah. Well, I think that things have
changed from when I got in the business.
I used to go to the New York com there's
a commercial library and read microfich
uh that was a couple months old.
Couldn't get any reports. It wasn't
available. Now everything's available.
And I do recommend look chat GPT. You
can find out perplexity. You can find
out more than you get. I mean, I was
watch within five minutes. They have
everything.
>> Yeah.
>> And I just think that if someone wants
to do it right, they can do it right.
They got four slots away from the
speculative. I think that I show that
one or two if they hit can make up for
all the losses. I accept the fact that
they're going to have losses because
nobody's that good. But in every kind of
every kind of schematic I did, the index
fund didn't do as well. And yet we we
rever the index fund good. We get one
really good one. You have seven good
ones and 493 bad. Well, that's what you
that's not my style.
>> I am kind of partial to the argument
that because so much of the debate and
the story is online now that the guy
who's like day trading from his basement
probably has a very good like finger on
the pulse of the market and possibly
better than some of the professionals
nowadays.
>> Then you're more you're more
revolutionary than I am.
>> Oh, I think I think you saw it during
the uh the meme stock. Exactly. Is it
weird to go from a professional hedge
fund guy, a legit hedge fund guy to the
sort of poster boy for retail day
traders?
>> Yes. Uh when I was a hedge fund manager,
everything was to try to figure out the
patterns that now the machines do
because that was pre-machine. Um and now
I'm kind of a spokesman for the
individual investor who is completely
not the professional. And that's because
the show Mad Money has been on for 20
years. It is it's a six o'clock show and
what happens it's all about what the
individual is trying to do and what I'm
trying to explain. Let's I'll give you
an example tonight. Give you a little
preview. Uh I'm going to talk about the
multiple
>> and why I want to talk about the
multiple because that's the secret sauce
and yet people don't understand and I I
I invoke my mom in the book. My mom is a
person who you meant we were talking
about in Newui. My mom is someone who
says Pepsi's was at 140 right now and
Coca-Cola is 67. I have got to buy Coke.
It should never be as cheap as as Pepsi.
You know, it' never be as Pepsi should
be double. I mean, Coke should be
double. And like I would say, Mom, no.
That has an artifice. It's a price.
Jimmy, listen to me. It's ridiculous
that Pepsi is a 140. Period. End of
story. And she didn't know that it was a
ratio. and she would call in at 9:30
when I was at Goldman and buy I want to
buy three shares of of giant food and
that was not the why I was at Goldman
>> that was not to do the three three sure
but I I I am incredibly cognizant in the
book that people don't know how to read
a balance sheet so I actually take the
risk of 20 pages about how to read a
balance sheet I take it now when I when
I did the book I mean they were like
whoa you know hey and I said no no I got
to go there if I'm telling people to own
individual stocks. I have to help them
with chat GPT and how to analyze balance
sheet and how to actually go line by
line because I don't want to be
irresponsible and say what you ought to
do is say you know what Coca-Cola is
pretty good here. You've got to
understand why and that's a big part of
the book.
>> You mentioned uh meme stocks you know as
someone who has spent a career
advocating this for this idea that the
individual can trade. Did you ever have
like now in 2025 like what do you think
about that specific time? I mean,
arguably it's like multiplied since
then. But but have you ever do you ever
stop and think like do you ever think
this has gotten out of hand? Do you ever
think this is a monster that has gone
beyond where it should? Like do you ever
have misgivings about the degree of
public participation?
>> Absolutely. I had a moment uh where I
had had some serious back surgery. So I
was out uh heavily medicated for three
days and when I started
>> this was during GameStop mania. Well,
GameStop was at about 100 when I started
and
>> uh I was when I came to basically and
stopped using the whatever kind of
heroin that they give you these days. It
was a Thursday and GameStop had
quadruple. I had a ca catheter in me.
>> Did you think you were hallucinating?
>> Uh well, I had Yes. Yes. I thought that
maybe slipped something. The midnight
guy slipped something, but I I had a
catheter in me and I couldn't reach the
TV. It was driving me crazy. I I finally
just pulled the catheter out, which is
really not a good experience. You really
like to be more of a pro. And I called
into Carl and David, Carl Kin and David
Faber, and said, "This is ridiculous.
Everybody has to sell." After that, it
was it was 24/7 bodyguard because I
destroyed the chain letter.
>> Well, GameStop shouldn't have been at
400. We all know that. No. Isn't it
interesting that GameStop is still
fighting and they've got uh, you know,
they've raised a lot of money by doing
that at the money sale. death threats
and stuff like that for
>> Oh, I've had a lot of my not supposed to
talk about
>> maybe we'll talk maybe over maybe we'll
talk a little bit about both of us need
to learn a little bit more about how to
handle public uh but yeah
>> well look you've always been it's you
you've been straight and we know that
you're fearless and fearless means when
you're with your guards they say listen
you got to stop being fearless I owned a
restaurant
>> and one of the guards said look here's
what we're going to do first you're
never going to your own restaurant
that's the most vis I Look, I own the
restaurant. I like to go in Tuesdays and
Wednesdays. He said, "Okay, you got to
vary the day and you got to go no no no
time after after 700." I said, "Well, it
doesn't open till 7." We have to be a
little more cognizant. We especially in
this era, this horrible era that we're
seeing.
>> Joe, do you still dream of owning a
restaurant? Didn't you talk about doing
this like a diner?
>> Diner one. I still might one day.
>> Okay. I got to tell you, if you can have
a a mixture of alcohol
>> Yeah.
>> You know, you can make money.
>> Yeah. We made money
>> just on the alcohol. You also own a
mscal business which we should talk
about. That's why we had to switch to
that because we saw the people buying
messcal like mad. So we we pivoted. Wow.
You really f Well, I I of course you
>> No, but you're knowledgeable. Trace, I'
I've not worked with you. I I've
listened to you and you're completely
enjoyable and terrific. And this is a
show I was telling Joe beforehand. What
a cool thing. We haven't taken seven
commercials yet. Do you realize that? We
might have once this has been published.
>> But yes, it's true. We do we do just get
to talk which is very nice.
>> Wait. Okay. Serious question.
>> We've been serious the whole way,
haven't we?
>> Sure. You touched on the information u
the plethora of information sort of
leveling the field for professionals and
retail. And then earlier this week we
had Trump suggesting that public
companies should report every six months
instead of quarterly. Oh,
>> what would that do for the retail
investor? And there is also this trend
towards more private markets, more
companies that are not IPOing, less
information available.
>> Well, this has been a great soularching
moment because having run uh a public
company, the street, the quarterly
filings cost us a fortune. Uh we didn't
have that much. It was like our whole
profit was went to the auditors and they
were real pain in the butt because we
didn't know really how to do it and CFO
had to huddle. We lose that person for
20 days. But as an investor, I want all
the information possible. So I kind of
feel I propose the multiple. I kind of
feel like look, you can give us two
reports, but you've got to give us a
report that would make us in the the non
SEC make us understand why we should be
paying X for you. Again, the the price
turning multiple because that's that's
what people need to be able to make
decisions. This was a harder one than I
thought because the president uh really
does speak to a lot of CEOs and this is
what they talk about.
>> Yeah, I'm sure they complain about it.
>> Oh yeah, because look, one of the things
that I I hated about the being a public
company is the conference call.
>> What are we going to say? Are do we do
well? What what are we going to predict?
Are the margins going up? Mar I mean and
I just said we can't give a forecast.
No, if we don't do forecast then they
won't like us. And but if we do the
forecast, we'll miss the forecast. And
you these kind of silly discussions,
they're really silly and I think that
they I think they're a shame because
they sure take a lot of time and they're
very very misleading.
>> You said there's something in your book.
Speaking of
>> You actually read the damn book.
>> I read a good book. I read a good Here's
one reason. My wife My wife said I bet
she read it. I bet she read it.
>> This is something I wondered about in
April when the stock market plunged
after um liberation day. They came back.
But you talked about the fact that like
politicians by and large they don't
actually Trump is a little different
than most politicians. Uh but they don't
typically run on the the stock market
and they also like don't run about like
the shareholder as a class of society
that deserves to be represented right as
you mentioned in your book like Joe
Biden was sort of proud of the fact that
he didn't have much money. You never
really hear well what about the
shareholder class as an individual. And
I'm curious why you think that,
especially now that so many people are
into stocks, it's so much part of pop
culture, etc. Why don't people are
talking about the shareholder class? I
saw Dick Grasso on the floor yesterday.
And you know, I used to go around the
country with him talking about the
shareholder class and ownership. We just
talked about ownership. That was kind of
pre the idea that every everything had
to be traded. When I was at Goldman, we
talked about ownership. And ownership
means compounding. And compounding is a
very boring word, but it is what makes
you the biggest money. And I think we
have to encourage ownership. Now, in
terms of President Trump, I was a judge
on the apprentice for a very long time.
And before that, he had been on mad
money multiple times. And he always
said, "Look, I don't do stocks. Give me
some stocks. I want to own some stocks."
And you know, that's that's a totally
fraught situation. You don't want to
offer them, you know, Alcoa. So, I
always just said, "Listen, utilities."
And he said, "Good, good. This is what I
want." Yeah, because utilities, frankly,
you you're not blowing your head off
with aid with American Electric Power,
but he didn't pride himself in not
knowing stocks. He wished he had more
time to learn stocks. I think that he
this time around when I spoke to him,
he's not really into the stock market as
a barometer of his success anymore. In
the old days when I spoke to him as
president first goaround he thought that
the Dow he liked the Dow more than the
S& the Dow determined it was the great
it really was the if he didn't beat if
the Dow didn't go up then he wasn't a
good president so it was the great
determinant and I always tell him please
don't do that it's too hard you're not
really one for one with it
>> like the Dow
>> well he liked yes he liked that it was
like the Neielson's and uh I have to
tell you doing the apprentichip is quite
quite enjoyable
>> I Wait, tell us stories. I want to hear
the behindthe-scenes gossip.
>> Well, I mean what would happen is is
that you had to monitor tasks. I'm not
going to mention they would have a task.
I'm not going to mention individual
names because I had a non-disclosure,
but I will tell you there's some people
who do the task and some people who want
you to do the task like me. I was like,
"No, I'm just a judge." But we would go
through it and I would have to out the
person who did nothing or out the person
who said they were doing something and
you know maybe the two people were doing
it and one was doing nothing and or
didn't show. There were some of those
instances but in the end they used my um
my verdict I'd say maybe half the time
and I wish they' used it more because I
spent a huge amount of time looking at
it. But the president had a uh he had
views. He had strong views and they
views did did conflict with mine quite
often.
>> Here's a question. It's sort of a media
naval gazing question, but also a
serious one. So, you've been doing the
show for 20 years. Which is phenomenal.
Um, thank you.
>> I heard also that you get up at 3:00
a.m. every day to go to the gym and then
do the show, which
>> Well, 3:15.
>> 3:15. Oh, the extra 15 minutes.
>> I always because I'm a competitive guy,
I always said I get up earlier so that I
beat everybody else. But that's losing
its charm, frankly.
>> Um, how do you benchmark your own
performance?
>> I thought you say, "How do I bench?"
Because I, you know, I used to, I was
doing 250 initially. I'm sorry. How do I
benchmark my own performance?
>> Your own performance when it comes to
stock picking because frankly, like 20
years of content, multiple stock picks.
I don't even know how you keep track of
all of them. Like, I can't remember the
episodes we did two weeks ago.
>> Well, okay. I mean, I have a charable
trust, so you can look at it. You can't
really compound. If you sell, you have
to give the profits away and the
dividends have to be given away, but
it's all pretty public. But I would
gauge me by what I talk about endlessly.
And now this is not people think that's
anecdotal for 20 years it's empirical.
If you talk about Apple 32 times a week
and you talk about new core one time a
week and you're graded equally Apple and
Newore, that's that's farical. Uh I was
with Tim Cook last Friday uh in
Harrisburg, Kentucky and he introduced
me to someone is Jim own don't trade
Apple Kramer and that's how I feel and
the best one I've ever had was Jensen
Jensen Wong when the stock was two I
said we're done trading it uh please
stop trading it and then I renamed my
dog with he was Everest and I named him
Nvidia and I go all over the country and
I see
>> how confused was the dog
>> the dog was an idiot if you had state
you always had to steak in your hand
with that idiot. Um, you was a half pit
pitbull, half who knows what. But I do
think that when you look at the number
of Nvidia millionaires, yeah,
>> that also is empirical, not anecdotal.
Now, there are people who want to say,
Jim, I really do want to measure what
you said about Bloom Energy last night
and versus what you say about Apple. And
you know what I say? Knock yourself out.
I mean, if it was really wrong, I would
have been cancelled. I mean, I'm like 20
years means either that I fooled the
whole damn world every night or maybe
people like it and they learn. Maybe
they learn.
>> Um, you mentioned uh you you get up at
3:15. I used to get up at 4:00 a.m.
every day and people still think I do,
so they think I have this crazy work
ethic. I've been sleeping in a long
time. But you you know a lot and the
only way to know a lot is to read a lot
and to work a lot. Can you give us like
a day like Okay, you wake up at 3:15.
>> Like you read and work like crazy. Give
us a little the prep that goes into your
show.
>> Here's a wild one. I start with the FT.
>> Okay.
>> Because the FT has one breaking news
story every day. Just one, but it's
great. And today was the
>> What time do you read it?
>> Uh, you're up at 3:15.
>> I do have to I mean, I have a 4:00
workout and that that's an hour and a
half. So, I have a tight schedule for
the first 45. I look at the future.
NBC.com. uh Bloomberg, New York Times,
Wall Street Journal. I spend a little
more time on the Wall Street Journal
this day because I feel like that
they're a little more in tune with what
the market's doing.
>> Uh and then I go and I start looking at
my email and the email is just a series
of PDFs.
>> How many emails do you get a day?
>> 700.
>> Wow.
>> I look through the PDF.
>> Yeah.
>> And I look You read all the sellside
research.
>> I read everything I think is relevant.
>> Oh, and I'm looking for something to
say. I have a memo that comes out. uh 10
things I'm looking at. I have to have
that in at 7:30. So that's that's my
overlord. Uh and then after that I have
to do Squawk on the street and then I
start again. I start write writing the
show. And I've been writing the show
with my sister's kid since he was in
high school. He's now with me for 20
years, Cliff Mason. He's a genius and
he's
I mean the guy can just he I think he he
has two PCs going all at once and he's
remarkable and we have a really good
time doing mad money
>> and wait what time is this hour that
you're working
>> this is beginning this is beginning at
10:05
>> and when are you reading like all the
conference calls and earnings cuz you
reading one of the things you know
details of the calls and earnings
>> during the day I spend a huge amount of
time I mean for instance I'm in the
houseion moment here because the thing I
read I had to read this point was
General Mills.
>> Okay.
>> And I I'll read more of that because
they talked about how the consumer is
hurting
>> and you know if if you're hurting maybe
because Blue Buffalo actually was plus
six. Uh but if you look at some of their
brands, proprietary brands, they can be
knocked off. It's not like uh when
Costco couldn't knock off Coca-Cola.
Their stuff is you their stuff's more
funible. There's more elastic. But I I
spend you know I'm a couple hours a day
on on the
>> book and then after hours earnings. So
then like Apple reports earnings and
then you do the work. Talk to Yeah,
>> I have a great marriage. I spec I put
that out first
>> because I wreck it every day. Uh I
finish the show at4 6 taped live tape. I
come home. I have a bite to eat. I mean
I had to go out to dinner last night. I
hate that. Uh and then I say good night
to my wife.
>> Wait, what time do you go to bed?
>> I go to bed at 11:00. She goes to bed at
like a normal time. So that's when I
really wreck the marriage. That's not
the plan. I don't set out to do that.
Did that previously. Bad strategy, but I
just find that I have to do that. And
that's like during when you have that
rush. Now earning season no longer is a
season
>> because companies are
>> It feels like it goes on forever,
>> doesn't it? It's kind of perma. But when
we have that week where JP Morgan starts
and Wells does it, that weekend is just
miserable. Fortunately, during the
summer I garden, but my weekends are
just filled with this.
>> I love gardening. We should talk
gardening.
>> Are you vegetable or
>> big gardener? Decorative flower
gardening.
>> Hey, you should join. I need one.
>> I used to have a vegetable patch
actually, but then I moved to a new
place. I need to restart one. Um, how do
you choose your sound effects?
>> Oh, okay. Hey, I had a radio show.
>> This this show
>> and you know where that radio show
appear?
>> The greatest radio network in the world.
>> Bloomberg. Ah,
>> and the mayor run it ran it twice a day
because he thought it was it was a lot
of it was educational.
>> Mike loves radio.
>> Oh, he really does. He was my big, you
know, look, I think if I say he was my
biggest backer, that sounds like a
joker, but he he loved what I did and um
the sound effects got people going. Uh,
and it was drive time and he was so
supportive and I love him. I mean, look,
once you leave, it's he's not as
supportive, but what can I say? I mean
this is Bloomberg and
>> we should try to reintroduce sound
effects on radio.
>> The mayor loved it
>> because he wanted people to listen and
that's what you know bull bear those
easy sounds to imagine incorrect a
buzzer and but a guillotine for they
they had to cut the numbers and that
kind of thing. We only have one which is
the monopsin claxon which isn't exactly
that. Uh
>> we even use it or we just say we're
gonna
>> producers insert the minopony that I
work for Bloomberg very proud a proud
fellow where you know one of the
>> it's great to be substantive and great
to be able to explain and educate and no
one said education doesn't work for the
numbers. No one
>> do you actually do you think of yourself
more as an educator versus a stock
picker?
>> Yes. This is really like let's say last
night's show I tried to explain that
what matters today with the Fed is will
the curve what what way will the curve
change will we will interest rates start
going up on the long end or down long
and down is the big win long and up is
what happened last year we we had the
stutter step and then we had the
December crash when when pal just said
listen we're we're done that's going to
be the judge but I had to use all sorts
of analogies cuz the curve you can't
ever mention the curve like do you ever
read Sydney Homer?
>> We can mention the curve.
>> You can but every inside the yield curve
by Sydney Homer
>> Tracy's read a lot of Homer
>> it's 5.
I knew you were talking about Sydney
Homer. Tracy's read I love that book.
Also most of
>> 550 page book about inside the
>> but most of it is charts. That's what
people don't understand. It goes by
really fast. It's all charts.
>> She's she's a hitter. Yeah. But I
listen, you're kind of, you know, you're
a hitter. The show's Can I say I like
the show? It's okay to say I like the
show.
>> Yeah. No, we we are going to use this on
sizzle reels and promotional for years
to come.
>> Well, I see these people that I've
worked with here, you know, and I von I
just And these are the cream of the
crop. I mean, when I was at the street,
everybody who was good Oh, yeah. I I
actually encourage them to come here
because they start start at the street
and the idea is to move up
>> and you want to go to a place where
people can be thoughtful. And look, I'm
not saying this to suck up. I'm saying I
worked here.
>> Yeah.
>> And that's what the essence was.
>> Many great street alum have uh come
through. Okay. Uh I was going to like
say, you know, when we were going over
what we wanted to talk about and I was
going to bring this up and then you're
like, "No, don't bring up uh what we
want to talk about." as a complete uh
surprise
>> surprise. Um
>> were you a college age sparticist or
Trosky? I like tell us about
>> you mentioned it once I think in a video
but then the video find it online.
You've also tweeted about your uncle
Vlad about a hundred times with whom you
do bear a passing resemblance. Give us
like what's the real story?
>> I still I used to be stopped by as uncle
Vlad all the time.
>> Yeah. Um okay. Mine was Spartacus
because I believe who were they?
>> Yes. Yes. The workers united should
never be defeated because we're about
the we're about the workers owning the
means of production. So therefore, we
should own the the company. Yeah. And
Nroski obviously gravely misunderstood
including the ice pick. The ice pick
very bad.
>> Yeah, that was very bad. That suboptimal
day, the ice pick. But I just think that
that made a lot of sense and I went that
way.
>> This is when you wrote Harvard.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> Uh we had pretty pretty big following
and there were not that many Leninists.
I mean, you know, Trosky was a pretty
good writer.
>> Yeah.
>> And Lennon was he wrote what is to be
done. His version there were two what is
to be done. And that that's a good read.
But Trosky really was a very thoughtful
guy and also a great army general. And
people forget that
>> his train must have been so sick. train.
The train, man. Only the money train,
the Armenian money train in Shield and
that train really worked.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, I guess the fugitive train crash
was good train cash. Anyway,
>> I like Union Pacific here.
>> I like talking about trust. Seamless.
>> Well, I just can't help it.
>> Yeah, I was a labor. I ran because you
also talked about you once did a Wildcat
strike. ran a Wildcat strike at at the
at the state the Phillies where I felt
that we should have I look we're doing
all the work here. I talked these guys
out. We're doing all the work here. And
yet everyone else, the o the the
overlords we By the way, can I just tell
you, you had to do a kickback when
you're selling ice cream. Hey, ice
cream, vanilla, and chocolate. You had
to give back. Onethird of your money
went back to the guy. So, you didn't get
strawberry ice cream because you can't
sell strawberry. Nobody wants
strawberry. That was the big thread.
Hey, listen. Shut up, Kramer. You're
going to get strawberry. But I had a I
had a seventh level concession that I
paid everybody. I paid everybody not to
come up the seventh level. So, I owned
it. But we had Steve Carlton then a long
time ago. Probably not known, but he he
used to pitch games in an hour and a
half. I was always long a huge amount of
ice cream in July. It was just dreadful.
But so I let the Wildcats strike and it
was very good. They called me in and
they said, "You're fired." I said,
"Well, you can't do that." "Well, you're
not going to get any ice cream tonight.
You can come while you went to this, but
you're not getting ice cream." And that
was it.
>> Um and that was bad. So when did you see
the light though from
>> Okay, actually really great question.
The light was when I helped um I I
helped strike JP Stevens.
Now JP Stevens was a terrific towel
company linen company. Uh with JP
Stevens being this great Princeton alum
and we knew where he lived and we
targeted the the management and really
thought we had it going and we were
crushing it. I was like coming up from
the south to help work on it. And then
they closed the company rather than deal
with us.
>> They closed it. And I that was when I
had a change of heart because I said,
"Wait a second. I just helped take away
the livelihood, the the health care, the
dinner for thousands of workers by
trying to get them more money." And I I
really had to rethink it. Um, and I just
said, well, maybe the Spartis is thing
more focused on the the matter at hand,
which is covering homicide. Uh, but I
really felt awful about what we did. We
closed the company. That was not the
intent.
>> Wait, there is this tension though
between like workers having jobs and
shares actually going up, right? Like
you have companies that the easy way to
boost your share price is to cut cost,
which means laying off workers. How do
you square that?
>> Well, I think that you guys did a piece,
I think it was you, Joe, about how that
you've been thinking a lot about the
billionaires, thinking a lot about the
>> And I think that the way I square that
is is that if I go back to President
Reagan,
he was disgusted by how much the CEOs
made and the difference and how the CEOs
did never had to pay the price and the
workers had to pay the price. This this
was this you're talking about Reagan and
funny that Elizabeth Warren reminded me
about this when I saw I just think that
it's a travesty. I met with President
Clinton over a plan which said look I
think that workers should get shares if
they're laid off because typically a
stock goes up after the laid off. And
what he did was he gave me a can of
Coke, Diet Coke. Said this is the
greatest idea in the world. We're going
to run with it. And nothing ever
happened.
>> Which president was this?
>> President Clinton.
>> Oh, Clinton. Well, they all said that it
didn't matter which president. Nobody
ever did what I said.
>> President Biden was hilarious. We meet
him on that train. And he said, I he
said, "Honestly, I am the poorest of the
hundred. Why do I need your
information?" I said, "You don't need it
at all. I mean, am I going to take him
to minus five?" Uh, I do think that
President Clinton was very smart about
the market and understood that laid-off
workers were the tinder to get a stock
higher. He was really smart about the
market. President Bush.
Uh, number two, not that smart.
>> Wait, will you rank uh presidential
knowledge?
>> Oh my god. Okay. Well, first I would
take Andrew Johnson because he was
insider trade. No. I I don't know. I
mean, did you read any of these books
about Jay Gold?
>> No.
>> And what he did with with Grant? Oh my
god. He found out that gold, you know,
where they were on the gold standard and
e comp. There were there were many many
stories about about presidents I think
helping by mistake.
>> So I would have to give those guys.
>> So those
>> as a um what do you think about you know
there is this sort of particularly in
New York City this very energetic nent
leftism. They wouldn't characterize
themselves as communists. I don't think
Zoron is going around calling himself a
trust. I don't think he is. I wish you
make Yeah. What do you make of this? Are
we in a like are we at a revolutionary
moment? Are the conditions of past
revolutions present here in the United
States?
>> No, they're not because we have great
job growth in the revolutions have
typically been uh preceded by famine.
>> Okay. Well, then how serious like when
you you know what do you what do you
think about uh the DSA and so forth like
cuz I think you've said you know like do
you consider them to be dangerous
radicals or are they like a sort of
different shade of liberal Democrats? I
think different show of liberal democ I
mean I remember uh Occupy Wall Street
and I used to go to it every you know
and see what's going on interview people
and they were uh they didn't know that
where they were politically because they
were so confused and we all in the media
kind of felt that they were communists
or leftists wanted to tear down Wall
Street. They just I mean they were just
sleeping in a cold on a cold stone
trying saying listen we're unhappy and
their ethos was zero. I think that this
the mayor race I mean look I I care
about defunding police versus police
because I care about public safety.
>> Sure.
>> And I saw what happened in San
Francisco. Uh
>> Zoron has changed I mean he has changed
his mind about that. He has
>> that's why I don't think that we're
going to be San Francisco. I also think
by the way it we went to trains on time.
We went public safety. I don't think
that that's I I don't think they're in
play. Uh I just really don't. Now I'm a
New Jersey citizen. I happen to love the
governor of New Jersey. He was my boss
at Goldman Sachs. But, uh, I I look, I
just want everyone to be able to
recognize that the town has made a great
comeback and there's just so many great
places. And I I hate to see anything
devolved into San Francisco, which is
getting better, but was a nightmare to
the point where I stopped going. I used
to do four times a year my show, but it
was I saw a guy pull a knife. I was in
front of I was behind him at Walgreens.
uh get all the money and then the cops
arrested him outside and they released
him. And I said, "What are you doing?"
He says, "Well, we are you a hunter?" I
said, "I'm a fisherman." He said, "Well,
we do the same thing. We catch and
release."
>> Okay.
>> Um Jim, I got to tell you, we just got a
message saying, "Uh, Mike Bloomberg
wants to say hi to you after we record
the show."
>> I don't believe that. No, seriously.
>> I You know, we're going to bring you
down.
>> Oh my god, I want a selfie. Isn't that
ridiculous?
>> Even though you left the company, he
wants to see you. I left the company,
but it was not on um it wasn't my idea.
I didn't want to leave the company to be
to be very specific. And but he became
mayor. And look, I always worshiped him.
What can I say? And I I won't even talk
about the myriad charities that he
really did fund because that's not why
he did it. And I always admired that
more than anything. He never wanted
anyone to know. In New York, it's so uh
you it's so predominant. You go into a
building and the guy's got his name on
it. Well, there's no, you know, that is
not Mayor Bloomberg. Mayor Bloomberg was
I I remember giving an award for what we
did at the Brooklyn Bridge. I don't know
if you guys have been to Brooklyn Bridge
Park, but this city's been redone and a
lot of it is the that Mr. Mayor. He's
Mr. Mayor.
>> Um, back to finance for a second.
>> Were you ever tempted to uh recommend
the inverse Kramer ETF?
>> Okay, so that guy got crushed.
>> He did. It was just annihilating. Had
you recommended it, they would have had
to short themselves, right?
>> Oh my god, what a cool idea. Yeah, I
didn't want to. It was one of those
things. This is, you know, you go
through and your wife says, "I don't
want you to acknowledge him." I said,
"Well, the guy's a total joker." She
says, "I don't want you to acknowledge
him." And a lot of times what happens is
you do go back to your home and you ask
your wife what can do or your partner
what what what's right because everyone
has got an agenda at work but my my
wife's agenda is me and so I always knew
that she was like a good lawyer there's
you know attorney client privilege is
there's wife spousal privilege
>> that must be me feel so good I'm looking
at the ticker now it did terrible and
then they liquidated it in February 2020
how do you look You know, I don't we
don't get a fraction of it, but we get a
little bit. Do have you ever like for
your mental health like public abuse or
public like what do you how do you ever
like do you have any tips?
>> Okay, sure. I mean, there was
>> sometimes people make fun of my voice in
the Apple Notes comment.
>> CNBC told me to be on John Stewart and I
didn't know the show and I didn't know
that he would
>> I didn't know he would be unfair and I
didn't explain. They were telling me
basically that he would it would be
convivial. So, I didn't come with my
agame, I came with my fame. Uh, and it
was mortifying and terrible and every
time I looked out, I mean, I always
thought people look at me. Now, there's
a whole generation of people it later,
right?
>> Yeah, he did. 16 years now. And I meet
younger people and they've never heard
of it. But those people never realize
that the New York Giants were a good
football team.
>> Kind of happens like that.
>> My most important tip is to say they're
not thinking of it when they talk to
you.
>> In other words, you're thinking of it,
but give yourself a break. Most of them
are not. I mean I would say like I would
I told him she goes she the whole time
she was thinking about just I know she
was thinking about no you're not a mind
reader take people at face value. He was
very mean person and that's a word that
my daughter used in fifth grade but I
don't know how else to define someone
who wants to take your livelihood away
and he wanted my livelihood taken away
and I didn't want it taken away and to
take away someone's livelihood as I
mentioned with JP Stevens is a terrible
thing. So I and I didn't deserve it, but
that's you. It's like it's like the
movie Unforgiven. It deserves got
nothing to do with it.
>> Speaking of the financial crisis though,
you you did have a series of like um
memeable moments, let's just say in
2007208, including the rant about Bear
Stern, the most incredible. It stands up
so well. Yeah.
>> Well, the there's a nice article in the
FT about it when the actual not the
minutes, but the actual transcript came
out and about how they laughed at me.
Yeah. Yeah.
>> And they actually mentioned, they said,
"Yeah, we laughed at him." He said, "Oh,
Kramer was he's really funny." Um, it
was about speaking to a lot of people
who were saying, "You got to get on the
case here. You guys are just oblivious.
You're acting as if it's a regular
market." And my friend Bernett was going
on about a regular thing. And I just had
to interrupt. And I said, "Look, you
know nothing. They know nothing." And
that was speaking about Ben Bernani,
which who really I think did know
nothing during that period. And um, I
was widely castigated. I had to go on
the Today Show the next day where Matt
Lowauour whatever um said you were off
you you were off your meds. I want to
hear more about this. Now see when you
say that someone's off their meds that
presumes that you were on your meds and
again I mean like look I am I used to
being demeaned does it bother me? It
doesn't bother me like it used to. Uh
but I do say that that rant holds up and
I'm proud.
>> Yeah. And then I did that other thing
where I went if you have any on the on
the today's show if you need your money
anytime the next five years and the
market this fell 40% after this you
should take it out now because I didn't
want people it took by the way it took
five years to get the market back to
where it was. I was worried about people
on a fixed income uh you know fixed in
meaning they own General Mills and they
own Chevron. Uh and I I just felt like
that it was just really the wrong time.
And then the next day they had me back.
Uh Ann Curry asked me, "Look, you said
this thing uh on the show, uh do you
want to take it back?" And I said, "No,
I mean sometimes when you yell fire in a
crowded theater, there's a fire.
>> I want to get out as many people as I
can." And these were moments that at the
time, you'll you'll really appreciate
this show. When I did these uh
subsequently, I was so ridiculed that I
that I would say to myself, why the hell
did I ever do it? Yeah. And and and you
know, I knew it was right, but no, I had
such
angst even though I was right. I was
attacked by so many people. But now, of
course, it's it's a dish best taste.
>> It's a How long do you do this for? Like
3:15. Like I don't again I don't work
nearly as much. No, but I like feel like
my health is I have the even the years
where I got up super early all the time
like they took
>> Remember you used to I remember you talk
about all the time.
>> Yeah. God, I love it so much. I do. And
I mean, last I was doing something last
night at dinner and I really wanted to
get home because I wanted to formulate a
thesis on DRAMs. Well, there you go.
>> Uh, but I am so fixated on this and I
find the puzzle so difficult and
fabulous. The Nvidia puzzle, the puzzle
this morning we have about what's going
to happen. I have to I'll write my top
right after the Fed. And this is such an
exciting day. You get 12 of these. So, I
don't know. And look, it's a great
question because I don't know how long
you can do it. And I do want to see the
world. And I don't take as much
vacation. I mean, I'm offered six weeks.
I take four. But I It's cuz I love it.
>> It is because I love it. It It's not a
sickness.
>> It really isn't.
>> So, how has your research process
changed over the years? Because again,
you've been in the game for decades. So
I I go out to dinner with Jensen Wong
and he says, "I know you spend all your
time reading these reports. I I just
urge you to chat GBT the advanced and
get the and and get the concise version
and then see if it's one you want to
do." And that has changed my life cuz
there'll be 10 and there'll be turns out
that Py home was important not because
of Bill Py he's not involved. uh and
Stanley uh Black & Decker was important
and Best Buy was that important. And
then the others I read the concise
version and I could move on with my life
and that was a great break for me
because it allowed me during the real
earning season to have 15 reports and
just say, "Okay, I'm only going to do
cat and proctor." Yeah, I think Tracy
and I have both found like there are a
lot of things that uh chat PD still
isn't good for, but there is no question
in my mind that for a research process,
whether it's finding the right document,
whether it's just it's very
>> Have you tried Perplexity Finance?
>> I used Perplexity maybe 10 times this
morning. Um
shorter, quicker, George Kurts from you
on I think it's impressive. Yeah, it is
very impressive. I wanted Apple to buy
them. I pushing that drum forever. I
mean, I was talking about that with with
Tim Cook on Friday. I really think that
they need something, but because of the
of the Google decision, the judge meta
decision, it's possible someone could
pay them.
>> We talk about China a lot on the show.
Are they are they stonite?
>> Wow.
>> No, I got that from I was reading
through your old I had never heard that.
>> Well, no, the eighth army is the eighth
army's famous.
>> Yeah. Who what is this? I only saw that
cuz I was reading through all your old
tweets. What is the Stacivite movement
and what does it have to do with
contemporary
>> China? is the guy who won the award for
for shoveling the most coal for steel
and Stalin loved him.
>> Communist obsessed with steel. I always
wonder why.
>> Yes, they always were. Every plan the
five year for China was was the same.
You know, they they're long a lot of
steel there. Uh China's wrecked the
steel market. President's dead right on
the trans shipments. My old buddy Peter
Navaro is dead right on the trans
shipments. It's wild that that he's my
old buddy, but he's my old buddy. Uh and
he went to jail. Bad. Not Yale jail
because he went to TUS. Uh but I I I do
think that when you look at China
sometimes I'm very harsh about them.
>> Okay.
>> But my and that's because my father
worked for St. Regis and Climax Union
Camp. He worked for he he championed he
worked for paper companies. He sold gift
wrap and corrugated. Uh and every single
time he did well at one of these uh they
closed it and they closed it because the
Chinese targeted the gift wrapped
industry. If you go to Costco, all you
have is Chinese gift wrap. So my father
at the age of 73 realized that's it.
They wiped us out. He called a company
that does from China who had American
rep and said, "Listen, I want to work
for the Chinese." And what he did was he
would sketch logos of restaurants and
suggest that they use doggy bags that
are have their own name. And he had a
drawstring doggy bag that that the
Chinese made for two bucks. He sold at
four. Um and he then had the run of his
lifetime from 73 to 92. He worked until
to the month he died. Actually had a
good last month. And what's incredible
was the Chinese treated him like kings.
And when he died, they gave me the
proceeds for three straight years. And
>> and they were the best bosses in the
world. They had no idea.
>> You called China the greatest capitalist
nation of all time.
>> It is. They just crush it. God, you
really read me close.
>> Is the headline of this episode going to
be Jim Kramer on communism?
>> No. No. It is very funny because I do
think they're the biggest threat. I
mean, what they're doing invidia. Well,
you grow. I do want Nvidia to be the
platform, but I haven't been to China.
So, um, secondarily, my son went to
China for uh to camel surf and he broke
his his uh well, he hurt his shoulder
and they were going to operate
immediately and I said, "Look, I got to
speak to the head of the hospital." No,
no, no, no. My wife flew him over for
Shang. I came back. But the the Chinese
are a conundrum for us because they work
harder than we do, but we may be we may
have them here. I know the exports were
really the export numbers are really
good for them away from us, but I think
we had to take some action because
there's too many fentanel towns. I got a
fentanel town right next to me
>> and I can tell you it was a great town
when I was growing up. Uh, and now it's
a town where I can't believe it. I can't
believe what happened. But the mills
closed, you know, the mills, the mills,
the mills. I mean, now you can't bring
back the Pyrex mill. That was good peeps
by George Packer in the Atlantic about
that. But I know we're really rambling
here and I shouldn't ramble anymore.
>> Let me ask one cliche question. Lots of
talk. I like the show.
>> Lots of talk about market valuations at
the moment. Froth in the market. We're
recording this, I should have said, on
Fed day, uh, September 17th.
>> Do you do you see froth? Do you see a
bubble brewing?
>> Yeah, there's two markets and that's one
of the reasons why I wrote the book. Um,
because there's this market where that
is a musical chair market. I make fun of
It's a palunteer market and I accept the
fact that this you want to speculate go
do palenteer because karp is you know
karp is one of the greatest this his
ontology work is incredible it's it's
better than scientology ontology but I I
want people to stop I can do let it be
one of your holdings but don't do all
because it will be crushed and when it
happen and I do believe it and when it
happens you'll lose everything and then
I would I anything I I tried to do would
be wrong it's like when I was at college
I used to go to the racetrack and then
there was a guy named Andy Byer who was
a profess he was a he was teaching a
course he said listen if you're going to
go speculate at the race at least know
how to do it and I never forgot that and
I if you're going to speculate I will
show you how to do it but I really want
compounding and I want compounding
because well but we know that that
really is Einstein did not call it the
eighth one of the world but we know that
that is a much better way to make money
much better
>> I have one last question it's very
closely related to this but one of the
>> why are you wearing a button down why
aren't you wearing French collar I don't
know. Was it kind of It was not wrinkly.
It was not wrinkly. We're gonna have
Kramer on today.
>> No, I like that you don't have to press
that because it has some sort of weird.
Did you buy that in Teu or did you get
that?
>> I got a unit close. So, next
>> I'm pretty sure that was an insult, Joe.
>> No, no, no. I cuz I I No, I would never.
I'm very
>> I would have said she if I went in. I
bought my I bought my wife some lingerie
on sheen and thank god we use you know
match light. don't happen. You don't
have to put gasoline on the
>> You know, one last question. I got
interested in the market in the late
90s. At any given moment in a boom or a
bubble, right?
>> There are moments that feel like the top
and then a year later you're like, "Oh,
that was nothing. That was just this."
They're like, "Oh, you know, it's like a
few a couple years ago they're like some
C3 AI is like booming. This is
>> oh my god, that jump crazy. I knew Tom,
>> right?" And so things like that or like,
"Oh, this, you know, this meme stock
went up. Dogecoin is railing. we must be
in a bubble. But all these things feel
like a top in the moment and then you
realize they were just little hills on
the way to a much bigger mountain.
>> So you've got to there's a simple
solution. you take out over time your
cost basis and then you play with the
house's money and then I'm okay because
I'm a first do no harm guy
>> a hypocratic oath and I can tell people
listen if you want to do that for your
one slot be my guest but as it goes up
you got to take your cost out and then I
don't care where it goes it's fantastic
but you are so right that's what happens
all look some people feel that Google's
Nvidia I mean I I worked enough on video
to know that they're going to
>> work on Google bubble in 2005 5 2006.
>> Well, I mean, look, I recommended Google
at 88. Uh, and I was investigated by the
CNBC general counsel for why I used 88.
It's so so big. And I said, because I
didn't use 300.
>> 300 was way low.
>> Didn't you get out of the com bubble
early as well?
>> Yes, I did. I was short. I went I went
100% short of.com
for spotting. Did you That's cuz that's
>> because I I owned the big I was the
biggest shareholder in the street.com
and we had gone from 63 to two. So I had
kind of a premonition. I mean when it
was in ' 63 the New York Observer said
that I was 30 drew a picture of me as a
pig and said the $360 million man. By
the time it came out I was 260 and then
a year later I was 2.6.
>> As a Trosky I the uh the pig cartoon
must have hurt.
>> Uh I was overweight then. Yeah.
Jim, we could uh we could talk for a
long time. Thank you so much for uh on
Wanted to have you for a very long time.
>> You're just a thoughtful guy. Well, when
you were the stalwart, you were the
first guy I read.
>> Thank you. You know that. I would get up
and read the stalwart because you would
be praise
>> because it was the best.
>> Well, thank you so much.
>> Absolutely. Thank you guys. I really
appreciate it.
>> Tracy, one thing I will say about Jim,
and I've always felt this, I've only met
him a handful of times before, but one
thing I'll say is like that public
persona is not an act. the the uh the
mad money vibe is that is Jim.
>> No, I can believe it. He has a lot of
energy.
>> Yes.
>> I feel like he's chaotic neutral maybe
in D and Dance.
>> I just can't like I couldn't sustain
getting up at 4:00 and that was just for
a few years. And the fact that he's
still up at 3:15
>> and he goes to sleep.
>> The fact that he goes to sleep at 11.
>> Yeah, that's 4 hours of sleep to me. And
he Yeah. Um, and that was a fascinating
discussion and I think one thing you can
say is that in some respects Jim's been
vindicated by, you know, the rise of
retail trading. Totally. Everyone takes
it more seriously now. That wasn't the
case in like the '9s or the early 2000s.
It's really changed.
>> No, it really is uh striking. I mean, it
does seem like, you know, he talked
about needing to get a bodyguard during
GameStop. So, it's clear that to some
element there is a part of the retail
investor world which has metastasize
into something sinister when people are
making threats because you don't like
the stock. It's really interesting how
people are just like any sort of
negativity is so fought back against
online when it comes to stocks these
days. It's um really striking. But also,
you know, obviously when and then other
things such as um the they know nothing
rant or the liquidation, which I hadn't
even realized until you mentioned it of
the SGIM ETF. Some good uh some good uh
some good wins under his belt.
>> Man, I really wish he had recommended
that.
>> I know that would have been to see the
inception of Okay, how do you how do you
>> I don't even know if an ETF can short
itself, but I guess we would find out.
Do we? Yeah. I don't know how you would
go about that, but no, I'm glad we
finally uh made that happen. And I read
about half of his book. Um and it's a
very fun read.
>> I'm looking forward to it. Yeah. Shall
we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> All right. This has been another episode
of the Odd Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy
Aloway. You can follow me at Tracy
Aloway.
>> And I'm Jill Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart.
>> And if you enjoyed the conversation,
please like or subscribe or leave a
comment down below.
>> Thanks for watching.
[Music]